docs: Guide for configuring automatic review rules (#54358)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/admin-guides/access-controls/access-requests/automatic-reviews.mdx

---
title: Configure Automatic Reviews
description: Describes how to configure Access Monitoring Rules for Automatic Reviews.
---

Teleport supports automatic reviews of Access Requests for Teleport Roles. This
feature enables teams to enforce a zero standing privilege policy, while
still allowing users to receive temporary access without manual approval.

## How it works

Automatic reviews are triggered by Access Monitoring Rules. These rules instruct
Teleport to monitor specific Access Requests and automatically submit a review
when certain conditions are met. The conditions can be configured based on the
requested roles, and based on the requesting user's Teleport traits.

Example:
An Access Monitoring Rule can configure automatic Access Request approval when a
user with the Teleport traits `team: demo` requests access to the `access` role.

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

> ## Step 1/4. Create Requester Role and User

Author: Oh, thanks for sharing this guide.

In this example, we'll first create:
- A role named `demo-access-request`, which allows requesting access to the
`access` role.
- A user named `demo-access-requester`, assigned the above role.

### Role Definition

Create a role configuration file named `demo-role.yaml`:
```yaml
# demo-role.yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: demo-access-request
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      roles:
      - access
      search_as_roles:
      - access
```

Create the role with:
```sh
$ tctl create demo-role.yaml
```

> ### Create the User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create the user
```
"user" is left lowercased in the docs

Use the following command to create the user and assign the role:
```sh
$ tctl users add --roles=demo-access-request demo-access-requester
```

Alternatively, you can assign the role after creating the user:

  (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="demo-access-request" user="\`demo-access-requester\`"!)

> ## Step 2/4. Assign User Traits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 2/4. Assign user traits
```

To allow automatic review rules to evaluate the requesting user, assign them
traits via the Teleport Web UI.

1. Go to **Zero Trust Access** -> **Users**
2. Next to `demo-access-requester`, click **Options** -> **Edit...**
3. Click **Add user trait**, and set:
   - Key: `team`
   - Value: `demo`
4. Click **Save**
5. Verify that the user has been updated with the desired trait.

> ![Edit User Traits](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/users-edit.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Edit User Traits](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/users-edit.png)

When adding user traits, you can enter any keys and values. The user trait form does not support wildcards or regular expressions.
```

Suggested because (as far as I recall) some Web UI forms do support these, so I thought we could make the constraints explicit.

## Step 3/4. Create Access Monitoring Rule

Next, define the automatic review rule via the Teleport Web UI.

1. Go to **Identity Governance** -> **Access Requests** -> **View Access Monitoring Rules**
2. Click **Create Access Monitoring Rule** -> **Automatic Review Rule**
3. Configure the rule and set:
   - **Name of roles to match**: `access`
   - **User Traits**: `team: demo`
   - **Review decision**: `APPROVED`
4. Click **Create Rule**

> ![Create Automatic Review Rule Editor](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/create-automatic-review-rule.png)

Reviewer: The vertical orientation of this image makes it pretty large on the rendered docs page.

This Access Monitoring Rule will ensure that Access Requests for the `access`
role will be automatically reviewed for approval if the Teleport user traits
requirements are satisfied. In this case, any user with the traits `team: demo`
will satisfy the requirement.

> 

Reviewer: Is the value of the **Key** field hardcoded, or does the user type it in? Does **Key** or **Value** support wildcards/regular expressions?

Author: The key field is not hardcoded. The user can specify any value. Wildcards/regular expressions are not supported for key or value in this format.

> ## Step 4/4. Verify Automatic Review Rule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4/4. Verify the automatic review rule
```
Adding a missing article and using consistent capitalization (looks like "automatic review rule" is lowercased elsewhere).

To verify the new Access Monitoring Rule, create an Access Request via the Teleport
Web UI.
1. Log in as `demo-access-requester`
2. Go to **Access Requests** and click **New Access Request**
3. Change the request type from **Resources** to **Roles**
4. Add the `access` role to the Access Request
5. Click **Proceed to Request**, then **Submit Request**

> ![Create Access Request](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/create-access-request.png)

Reviewer: This image is also pretty large on the rendered page.

---
title: Configure Automatic Reviews
description: Describes how to configure Access Monitoring Rules for Automatic Reviews.
---

> Teleport supports automatic reviews of Access Requests for Teleport roles. This

Reviewer 2: > for Teleport roles.

Does this mean we don't support automatic reviews for resource access requests?

Edit: I now see this mentioned at the very end in the troubleshooting section. I feel like we should make this limitation more clear up front.

Author: I've updated the first section to include this notice:
```
Support for automatic reviews of resource Access Requests is currently in development.
```

feature enables teams to enforce a zero standing privilege policy, while
still allowing users to receive temporary access without manual approval.

> 
> Support for automatic reviews of resource Access Requests is currently in
> development.

Reviewer 3: I would just remove this.
```suggestion
```

Author: I think it is worth mentioning up front that automatic reviews with resource requests are not supported yet. It was pointed out by Zac, and some other while testing this feature.

Reviewer 3: Let's make it an "info" admonition then at least? Otherwise it's just lost among the other text and people will skim over it.

## How it works

Automatic reviews are triggered by Access Monitoring Rules. These rules instruct

> Teleport to monitor specific Access Requests and automatically submit a review

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Teleport to monitor Access Requests and automatically submit a review
```

> when certain conditions are met. The conditions can be configured based on the
> requested roles, and based on the requesting user's Teleport traits.

Reviewer 3: Nit: I would rephrase this a bit so we don't have to change this when we add more conditions.
```suggestion
when certain conditions (such as requested roles or user traits) are met.
```

> For example, an Access Monitoring Rule can configure automatic Access Request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, an Access Monitoring Rule can perform an automatic Access Request
```

> approval when a user with the Teleport traits `team: demo` requests access to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
approval when a user with the Teleport trait or IdP attribute `team: demo` requests access to
```

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

> - Teleport Identity Governance enabled on your account.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear that "account" here refers to your Teleport subscription and not your user account. What if we just said:
```suggestion
- This feature requires Teleport Identity Governance.
```

(!docs/pages/includes/commercial-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- This feature requires Teleport Identity Governance.

## Step 1/4. Create a requester role and user

In this example, we'll first create:
- A role named `demo-access-request`, which allows requesting access to the
`access` role.
- A user named `demo-access-requester`, assigned the above role.

### Create the role

Create a role configuration file named `demo-role.yaml`:
```yaml
# demo-role.yaml
kind: role
version: v7
metadata:
  name: demo-access-request
spec:
  allow:
    request:
      roles:
      - access
      search_as_roles:
      - access
```

Create the role with:
```sh
$ tctl create demo-role.yaml
```

> ### Create the user

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering, should we split this section in 2 tabs that explains how to do this for a Teleport local vs SSO user?

- For Teleport local user, we tell them to create it and assign traits like you already have here.
- For SSO users, we tell them to ensure that IdP sends the required attribute (which will depend on IdP).

The reason is I think most people will want to use this feature with SSO users.

Author: I think we should keep this guide simple and straight forward with minimal configuration options. Following the [styles guide](https://www.notion.so/goteleport/Style-guide-160fdd3830be80a79e70f08df2df2a0a?pvs=4#160fdd3830be8098bd44cfc5361a9c57), I think it'd be better to have a separate access_monitoring_rules reference page that provides examples for all these different types of configurations, including SSO users.

Reviewer 3: Sounds good. I think I would still at least mention here that if you're using SSO, then you can match on their attributes passed from an IdP. It's a useful context and most people reading this will be wondering.

Use the following command to create the user and assign the role:
```sh
$ tctl users add --roles=demo-access-request demo-access-requester
```

Alternatively, you can assign the role after creating the user:

  (!docs/pages/includes/add-role-to-user.mdx role="demo-access-request" user="\`demo-access-requester\`"!)

## Step 2/4. Assign user traits

To allow automatic review rules to evaluate the requesting user, assign them
traits via the Teleport Web UI.

1. Go to **Zero Trust Access** -> **Users**
2. Next to `demo-access-requester`, click **Options** -> **Edit...**
3. Click **Add user trait**, and set:
   - Key: `team`
   - Value: `demo`
4. Click **Save**
5. Verify that the user has been updated with the desired trait.

![Edit User Traits](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/users-edit.png)

When adding user traits, you can enter any keys and values. The user trait form
does not support wildcard or regular expressions.

## Step 3/4. Create Access Monitoring Rule

Next, define the automatic review rule via the Teleport Web UI.

> 

Reviewer 3: Should we at least give a link here to Reference section here saying something like here's the resource spec if you want to create it via CLI? Or are you planning to add a section below that shows CLI/Terraform/etc. as a follow up?

Author: I've included a link to the resource references page in the `Next Steps` section. I can also include more CLI/Terraform examples in a separate access_monitoring_rules reference page.

Web UI.
1. Log in as `demo-access-requester`
2. Go to **Access Requests** and click **New Access Request**
3. Change the request type from **Resources** to **Roles**
4. Add the `access` role to the Access Request
5. Click **Proceed to Request**, then **Submit Request**

![Create Access Request](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/create-access-request.png)

At this point, the new Access Request should have been created, automatically
reviewed, and transitioned into an `APPROVED` state. Navigate **Back to Listings**
and verify the Access Request status. It might take a second for the review to
process, so you may have to refresh the page.

![View Access Requests](../../../../img/access-controls/automatic-reviews/view-access-requests.png)

## Troubleshooting

### Conflicting automatic review rules

Automatic review rules can automatically approve or deny Access Requests based
on the selected review decision. If an Access Request meets the conditions for
both an approval rule and a denial rule, neither rule will be applied.

If you suspect this issue, review your Access Monitoring Rules in the Teleport

> Web UI or by running `tctl get access_monitoring_rules`.

Reviewer 2: A few comments.

1. It's an interesting decision to apply neither. Typically in Teleport's RBAC system when multiple rules disagree then the strictest option wins. Any particular reason we made automatic reviews work differently?

2. From a UX perspective, "manually review all of your access monitoring rules to see if there's a conflict" is not very friendly. Can we detect this case and communicate the conflict to the user? (Not saying we need to do it now, but maybe we can create an issue to follow up).

Author: > Typically in Teleport's RBAC system when multiple rules disagree then the strictest option wins.

That probably makes more sense. I'll create a follow up item make this change.

> From a UX perspective, "manually review all of your access monitoring rules to see if there's a conflict" is not very friendly.

Yeah, this is a concern that I've been thinking about how to address. We don't have a great solution for validating or reviewing access_monitoring_rules right now. The use of Teleport's predicate language makes this problem a bit complicated.

Author: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/54933 changes the behavior when conflicting rules match a request. Denied reviews will now take precedence.
